fix: remove workspace: prefix from dependent version ranges so they can be semver evaluated (#441)
atlassian/changesets: .changeset/chatty-eagles-look.md

---

> "@changesets/apply-release-plan": none

Reviewer: should the `apply-release-plan` be included in this changeset? no changes were made to it

Author: I made it a none type because I added a test to the package, but you're right that there's no functional changes. It's really just a force of habit from working in a changeset enforced environment. I'm not married to it at all and can remove it if you prefer.

Author: I only added tests there because of how assemble and apply work together. In case their interactions ever change in the future, the tests should help show the issue on the apply side too.

Reviewer: Sure thing, the added tests are great - I've just been commenting on each test so I could build a better picture for the scope of your changes

"@changesets/assemble-release-plan": patch
---

> fix: remove workspace: prefix from dependent version ranges so they can be semver evaluated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed an issue with determining dependent updates for dependencies using `workspace:` protocol.
```

q: didn't it affect non-none updated as well somehow? although maybe then those dependents can only get `patch` assigned so maybe that's ok? one thing that comes to my mind is checking peer dep updates, is it possible to use `workspace:` for a peer dep? 🤔

Author: Right. When using a non-none changeset, it patch bumps the dependents just fine. 

I’m honestly not sure. Using peer dependencies inside a monorepo doesn’t really make sense, so I wouldn’t worry about it.

> Fixed an issue with determining dependent updates for dependencies using `workspace:` protocol.

Reviewer: To be more specific - shouldn't we only mention `none` changesets here? Were other cases fixed by this? If yes - no tests were added for other cases from what I can tell.

Author: This technically affects any changeset type when it comes across a workspace protocol because the `semver` package can't evaluate it correctly. It's just most noticeable when a none type is used because no bump should be happening. Any other patch bump or higher would obscure this.

Reviewer: q: would it be possible for it to fail in a different way? for example by bumping with a patch when the minor bump should be done? I guess not as this logic is only concerned about adding dependents to releases and they are always added with a patch bump if there is no explicit release for them.

> Fixed an issue with determining dependent updates for dependencies using `workspace:` protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed an issue with including dependents in the release plan for dependencies using `workspace:` protocol that had a `none` changeset for them.
```
